v6.7 Changelog and Important Upgrade Notes (#5605)
mattermost/docs: source/install/self-managed-changelog.md

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v6.7 - Feature Release](#release-v6-7-feature-release)
- [Release v6.6 - Feature Release](#release-v6-6-feature-release)
- [Release v6.5 - Feature Release](#release-v6-5-feature-release)
- [Release v6.4 - Feature Release](#release-v6-4-feature-release)
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)

## Release v6.7 - [Feature Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/release-definitions.html#feature-release)

**Release Day: 2022-05-16**

### Compatibility
 - Updated Chrome recommended minimum version to v100+.

### Important Upgrade Notes
 - New schema changes were introduced in the form of a new index. The following notes the test results for the schema changes:

>     - MySQL 7M Posts - ~17s (Instance: db.r5.xlarge)

Reviewer: To confirm, what are these times for? How long it takes to run the database queries?

Author: Pinging @agnivade to confirm

Reviewer 2: Yes.

 - For customers wanting a zero downtime upgrade, they are welcome to apply this index prior to doing the upgrade. This is fully backwards compatible and will not acquire any table lock or affect any existing operations on the table. 
    - For MySQL: `CREATE INDEX idx_posts_create_at_id on Posts(CreateAt, Id) LOCK=NONE;`
    - For Postgres: `CREATE INDEX CONCURRENTLY IF NOT EXISTS idx_posts_create_at_id on posts(createat, id);`

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.6, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Playbooks Updates
 - To keep procedures on track while reducing noise, task due dates can now be added to playbook runs (Professional and Enterprise editions).
 - To stay informed about how teams use Playbooks in your servers, usage statistics can now be set up for playbooks.
 - When a new member joins a channel, the refactored channel actions now allow a temporary welcome message to be automatically sent and the channel to be automatically categorized for each user.

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)

>  - Updated the NPS plugin to version 1.2.0.

Author: @marianunez can help with benefits.

>  - Updated the NPS plugin to version 1.2.0.

Reviewer 3: NPS plugin version 1.2.0 includes a new `Give Feedback` menu item in the `Help` menu to send feedback at anytime.

 - Improved the New Channel modal user interface.
 - Added the channel members list to the right-hand side Channel Info modal.
 - Added the ability to invite new users to a team from the **Add to channel** modal.
 - To be able to download images and copy public links for images quicker, a copy URL and download buttons were added to image thumbnails.
 - Added the ability to have one-character long channel names.
 
#### Performance
 - Improved the performance of ``GetTeamsUnreadForUser`` when Collapsed Reply Threads is enabled.
 - Added an index to the ``UserGroups DisplayName`` for improved autosuggest query performance.
 - Improved the performance of permission selectors.
 - Improved the performance of configuration read/writes if the configuration is stored on a database.

#### Administration
 - To add the ability to toggle sending inactivity email notification to Admins, a configuration setting ``EmailSettings.EnableInactivityEmail`` was added.
 - To filter out inactive users in the System Console, an **Active** filter was added for users and Admins in **System Console > User Management > Users**.
 - Added a ``threadsOnly`` query parameter for getting user threads.

>  - The Elasticsearch indexing job is resumable now. Stopping a server while the job is running will put the job in pending status and will resume the job when the server starts. The job can still be explicitly canceled via the **System Console**.

Reviewer: Enterprise plan only

>  - Added a new stats field under the channel object for graphql.

Reviewer: What does the stat do?

Author: Pinging @agnivade to confirm

Reviewer 2: This is a new addition to the GraphQL API. I don't think this is needed to be in the release notes since the whole feature is still under development.

>  - Added a new “License" button in **System Console > Edition and License**.

Reviewer: What does the button do?

Author: Added details.

 - Fixed an issue where pagination was broken in **System Console > Groups**.
 - Fixed an issue where thread updates did not show correctly after the computer woke up.
 - Fixed an issue where a negative unread count sometimes appeared with Collapsed Reply Threads enabled.
 - Fixed an issue where the modal to create a Custom Group got closed when pressing ENTER.
 - Fixed an issue where group mention did not get highlighted in Professional License.
   
### config.json
Multiple setting options were added to ``config.json``. Below is a list of the additions and their default values on install. The settings can be modified in ``config.json``, or the System Console when available.

#### Changes to Team Edition and Enterprise Edition:
 - Under ``EmailSettings`` in ``config.json``:
    - Added ``EnableInactivityEmail`` setting to be able to disable inactive server email notifications.
 - Under ``JobSettings`` in ``config.json``:
    - Added a new cleanup job to regularly remove outdated config entries from the database. The threshold for this setting can be adjusted with ``CleanupConfigThresholdDays``.
 - Under ``ElasticsearchSettings`` in ``config.json``:

>     - Elasticsearch and Bleve indexing have been revamped to be much more efficient and faster. The config parameter ``BulkIndexingTimeWindowSeconds`` for both Elasticsearch and bleve is now deprecated and no longer used. A new config parameter called ``BatchSize`` has been introduced instead. This parameter controls the number of objects that can be indexed in a single batch. This makes things more efficient and maintains a constant workload.

Reviewer: Enterprise Edition only?

Author: Pinging @agnivade to confirm

Reviewer 2: Elasticsearch is in enterprise. Bleve is in open source.

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v6.7 - Feature Release](#release-v6-7-feature-release)
- [Release v6.6 - Feature Release](#release-v6-6-feature-release)
- [Release v6.5 - Feature Release](#release-v6-5-feature-release)
- [Release v6.4 - Feature Release](#release-v6-4-feature-release)
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)

## Release v6.7 - [Feature Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/release-definitions.html#feature-release)

**Release Day: 2022-05-16**

### Compatibility

>  - Updated Chrome recommended minimum version to v100+.

Reviewer 4: @nab-77 are we still aiming to update the hardware guidelines in v6.7? If so I'd propose we mention it in the changelog and upgrade notes to ensure people see it

cc// @amyblais

Reviewer 5: In the 6.7 timeframe we are (i.e. before we hit 7.0). Can someone share the expected impact of the web client min version wrt the server requirements (i.e. if you do not use v100 or higher what is the server impact?)

Thanks.

### Important Upgrade Notes
 - New schema changes were introduced in the form of a new index. The following summarizes the test results measuring how long it took for the database queries to run with these schema changes:
    - MySQL 7M Posts - ~17s (Instance: db.r5.xlarge)
    - MySQL 9M Posts - 2min 12s (Instance: db.r5.large)
    - Postgres 7M Posts - ~9s  (Instance: db.r5.xlarge)

>  - For customers wanting a zero downtime upgrade, they are welcome to apply this index prior to doing the upgrade. This is fully backwards compatible and will not acquire any table lock or affect any existing operations on the table. Run the following to apply this index:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - For customers wanting a zero downtime upgrade, they are welcome to apply this index prior to doing the upgrade. Else, the queries will run during the upgrade process. This is fully backwards compatible and will not require any table lock or affect any existing operations on the table. Run the following to apply this index:
```

Reviewer: ^assuming this is accurate

Reviewer 2: Hmm .. any reason you replaced `acquire` with `require`? The meaning doesn't change very much but was just curious.

And just to clarify, the not acquiring table lock part will _only_ work if you run the queries before. The index application in the postgres case is not lock-free when done from the application. Only the MySQL one is. That's why I avoided the confusion and said only externally ran queries will be lock-free.

After you inserted the "Else, the queries will run during the upgrade process. " sentence, it might start to mean that queries ran during the upgrade process will also be lock-free.

Reviewer: Thanks @agnivade! How is this?

```
For customers wanting a zero downtime upgrade, they are encouraged to apply this index prior to doing the upgrade. This is fully backwards compatible and will not acquire any table lock or affect any existing operations on the table when run manually. Else, the queries will run during the upgrade process and will lock the table in non-MySQL environments. Run the following to apply this index:
```

I used the term `require` to emphasize otherwise it's required. But it sounds like it's not quite accurate, so adjusted it back

Reviewer 2: Yep, looks good!

See the [changelog in progress](https://bit.ly/2nK3cVf) for the upcoming release. See the [Legacy Self-Hosted Mattermost Changelog](legacy-self-hosted-changelog) for details on all Mattermost self-hosted releases prior to v5.37. 

Latest Mattermost Releases:
- [Release v6.7 - Feature Release](#release-v6-7-feature-release)
- [Release v6.6 - Feature Release](#release-v6-6-feature-release)
- [Release v6.5 - Feature Release](#release-v6-5-feature-release)
- [Release v6.4 - Feature Release](#release-v6-4-feature-release)
- [Release v6.3 - Extended Support Release](#release-v6-3-extended-support-release)

## Release v6.7 - [Feature Release](https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/release-definitions.html#feature-release)

**Release Day: 2022-05-16**

### Compatibility
 - Updated Chrome recommended minimum version to v100+.

### Important Upgrade Notes

>  - New schema changes were introduced in the form of a new index. The following notes the test results for the schema changes:

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - New schema changes were introduced in the form of a new index. The following summarizes the test results measuring how long it took for the database queries to run with these schema changes:
```

    - MySQL 7M Posts - ~17s (Instance: db.r5.xlarge)
    - MySQL 9M Posts - 2min 12s (Instance: db.r5.large)
    - Postgres 7M Posts - ~9s  (Instance: db.r5.xlarge)

>  - For customers wanting a zero downtime upgrade, they are welcome to apply this index prior to doing the upgrade. This is fully backwards compatible and will not acquire any table lock or affect any existing operations on the table. 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - For customers wanting a zero downtime upgrade, they are welcome to apply this index prior to doing the upgrade. This is fully backwards compatible and will not acquire any table lock or affect any existing operations on the table. Run the following to apply this index:
```

    - For Postgres: `CREATE INDEX CONCURRENTLY IF NOT EXISTS idx_posts_create_at_id on posts(createat, id);`

**IMPORTANT:** If you upgrade from a release earlier than v6.6, please read the other [Important Upgrade Notes](https://docs.mattermost.com/upgrade/important-upgrade-notes.html).

### Highlights

#### Playbooks Updates
 - To keep procedures on track while reducing noise, task due dates can now be added to playbook runs (Professional and Enterprise editions).
 - To stay informed about how teams use Playbooks in your servers, usage statistics can now be set up for playbooks.
 - When a new member joins a channel, the refactored channel actions now allow a temporary welcome message to be automatically sent and the channel to be automatically categorized for each user.

### Improvements

#### User Interface (UI)
 - Updated the NPS plugin to version 1.2.0.
 - Added Files and Pinned Messages to the right-hand side Channel Info.
 - Improved the New Channel modal user interface.
 - Added the channel members list to the right-hand side Channel Info modal.
 - Added the ability to invite new users to a team from the **Add to channel** modal.

>  - To be able to download images and copy public links for images quicker, a copy URL and download buttons were added to image thumbnails.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - To be able to download images and copy public links for images more quickly, a copy URL and download buttons were added to image thumbnails.
```

>  - Added the ability to have one-character long channel names.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
 - Added the ability to have one character long channel names.
```

 - Under ``ElasticsearchSettings`` in ``config.json``:
    - Elasticsearch and Bleve indexing have been revamped to be much more efficient and faster. The config parameter ``BulkIndexingTimeWindowSeconds`` for both Elasticsearch and bleve is now deprecated and no longer used. A new config parameter called ``BatchSize`` has been introduced instead. This parameter controls the number of objects that can be indexed in a single batch. This makes things more efficient and maintains a constant workload.

#### API Changes
 - Added a new API endpoint ``POST /api/v4/users/{user_id}/teams/{team_id}/threads/{thread_id}/set_unread/{post_id}`` to set a thread as unread by post id.
 - Added new API endpoints ``GET /api/v4/teams/:team_id/top/reactions`` and ``GET /api/v4/users/me/top/reactions`` to get top reactions for a team and user.
 - Fixed an issue where the ``UpdateUser`` API endpoint required a ``create_at`` field.
 - ``api/v4/file/s3_test`` now requires ``FileSettings`` to be all set to run.
 - ``api/v4/email/test`` now requires ``EmailSettings`` to be all set to run.
 - Added ``fromWebhook`` property to the webapp plugin API.

### Go Version

>  - v6.7 is built with Go ``v1.18.0``.

Author: @agnivade I mistook the notes here as a release note https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-server/pull/20010 (my mistake). I'll change it back to 1.16.7.
